Add blog post on Embed API v3 (#144)
readthedocs/blog: embed-api-v3.rst

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -s "https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/\
   > ?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html\
   > %23read-the-docs-features" | jq
   {
     "url": "https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#read-the-docs-features",
     "fragment": "read-the-docs-features",
     "content": "<div class=\"section\" id=\"read-the-docs-features\">\n<h1>Read the Docs ...",
     "external": false
   }

Or visually explore the query in the `web interface`__ instead.

.. __: https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html%23read-the-docs-features

Making the backend do the request has several advantages:

- It can return to the client only the fragment of interest, instead of
  the whole page, reducing processing times in the browser.
- It can cache the result, thanks to the generous support of CloudFlare.

Some big projects already using it include `Tweepy <https://docs.tweepy.org/>`_,
a Python client for Twitter, and `Scrapy <https://docs.scrapy.org/>`_,
a framework for crawling websites.

Current limitations
-------------------

We would like to invite the community to try out these features and

> send our feedback. In particular, the current version still has some limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
send us feedback. In particular, the current version still has some limitations
```

.. post:: December 2, 2021
   :tags: api, feature, grant
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      We are thrilled to announce the availability of Read the Docs Embed API v3,
      along with its official client, sphinx-hoverxref 1.0.
      We invite the community to try them out and let us know their feedback.

Announcing Embed API v3 and sphinx-hoverxref 1.0
================================================

We are thrilled to announce the availability of Read the Docs Embed API v3,
along with its official client, sphinx-hoverxref 1.0.
This work has been possible in part thanks to the
:doc:`the CZI grant we received </czi-grant-announcement>`.

> Why using content embedding?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Why use content embedding?
```

I think this is the proper grammar, but feels like a weird header for the opening of a blog post. Perhaps "The value of content embedding" or similar?

Author: Used your suggestion 👍🏽

----------------------------

As we wrote in
:doc:`our first blog post about sphinx-hoverxref </hoverxref-intersphinx>`,
one of the most powerful features of Sphinx
is the possibility of creating cross references
to other documentation projects.
However, a reader finding several links in a technical documentation
might need to open several browser tabs to fully understand the context,
resulting in a lot of friction in the form of context switching.

One way of mitigating the problem is to show a small preview
in the form of tooltip or modal with the contents of the link.
This is where the Embed API and sphinx-hoverxref come in.

`sphinx-hoverxref`_ is a Sphinx extension that addresses this problem
by adding tooltips on the cross references of the HTML documentation
with the content of the linked section.
To do so, it inserts a small JavaScript file that
calls the Read the Docs Embed API when the user hovers any link.
:doc:`Back in June </hoverxref-intersphinx>` we announced
intersphinx support in `sphinx-hoverxref`_ 0.6b1,
which allowed users to include modals and tooltips

> also for cross references to other projects.

Reviewer 2: Does 1.0 have any new features? Seems weird to talk about old features that we already wrote about. I'd probably highlight the main valuable features of the project itself, instead of a subset of the last released version.

.. figure:: img/sphinx-hoverxref-showcase.gif
   :width: 60%
   :align: center
   :alt: sphinx-hoverxref displaying tooltips for cross references
   :target: /_images/sphinx-hoverxref-showcase.gif

   sphinx-hoverxref displaying a tooltip including an equation

.. _sphinx-hoverxref: https://sphinx-hoverxref.readthedocs.io/

Embed API v3 and sphinx-hoverxref 1.0
-------------------------------------

Even though some projects were already using it,
the extension used older versions of our Embed API,
and by that time we already had a plan to overcome some of its limitations.
Among other things, we wanted the Embed API to

- Support embedding content from pages hosted outside Read the Docs, and
- Avoid coupling with Sphinx internal format,

>   and directly parse the HTML instead.

Reviewer 2: Did we achieve these goals? What is the benefit to the user of these things?

Author: Reworded to make this more clear 👍🏽

After some months of work, **we are excited to publish v3 of our Embed API,
and with it, version 1.0 of sphinx-hoverxref**.

To test the API directly, you can do

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -s "https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/\
   > ?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html\

>    > %23read-the-docs-features" | jq

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > %23read-the-docs-features" | python -m json.tool
```

I wouldn't assume people have `jq` installed.

Author: Good point, applied

   {
     "url": "https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#read-the-docs-features",
     "fragment": "read-the-docs-features",
     "content": "<div class=\"section\" id=\"read-the-docs-features\">\n<h1>Read the Docs ...",
     "external": false
   }

Or visually explore the query in the `web interface`__ instead.

.. __: https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html%23read-the-docs-features

> Making the backend do the request has several advantages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on a backend server for this functionality has several advantages:
```

This is a weird sentence. It doesn't really contextualize this statement. We should clarify that we're talking about it in opposition of doing a request from JS, but it seems like odd framing. I'd probably just talk about features of the API, instead of framing it as justifying a design decision.

Author: Pointed to the official reference docs for more detail.

- It can return to the client only the fragment of interest, instead of
  the whole page, reducing processing times in the browser.
- It can cache the result, thanks to the generous support of CloudFlare.

Some big projects already using it include `Tweepy <https://docs.tweepy.org/>`_,
a Python client for Twitter, and `Scrapy <https://docs.scrapy.org/>`_,
a framework for crawling websites.

Current limitations
-------------------

We would like to invite the community to try out these features and
send us feedback. In particular, the current version still has some limitations
that we would like to address soon:

> - For security reasons, we have an allowlist of external domains
>   the Embed API works with. We would like to invite the community

Reviewer 2: external domains here is undefined.

```suggestion
- For security reasons, we have an allowlist of projects hosted outside Read the Docs that
  the Embed API works with. We would like to invite the community
```

  to suggest more domains to add there, and evaluate them case by case.
- The JavaScript embed client is included in the assets of `sphinx-hoverxref`_,
  but it is not yet available as a standalone library that can be reused

>   with standard frontend packaging tools.

Reviewer 2: Ending on the limitations of the tool feels odd. We should at least have a call to action to try out the new tools!

that currently includes Python, NumPy, SciPy, SymPy,
and we would like to invite the community to suggest more domains to add.

Other additions and fixes include:

- Support for JS and CSS assets in Sphinx 4.1+.
- Support for ``glossary`` / ``term`` and sphinxcontrib-bibtex.
- Avoid showing the browser built-in tooltip for links that have the extension enabled.

Finally, version 3 of the Embed API
paves the way for supporting non-Sphinx projects in the future.

Embedding content with sphinx-hoverxref
---------------------------------------

To use sphinx-hoverxref in your Read the Docs project,
:doc:`declare it as part of your dependencies <guides/reproducible-builds>`:

.. code-block::
   :caption: requirements.txt
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   sphinx==4.3.1
   sphinx_rtd_theme==1.0.0
   sphinx-hoverxref==1.0.0

And add it to your list of Sphinx extensions:

.. code-block::
   :caption: conf.py
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   extensions = [
       # ...other extensions
       "hoverxref.extension",
   ]

To enable the extension on all ``:ref:`` of your documentation,
set the ``hoverxref_auto_ref`` to ``True``:

.. code-block::
   :caption: conf.py

>    hoverxref_auto_ref = True

Reviewer 2: I kinda hate that this is required. Is this not a reasonable default?

Author: Let's continue the conversation at https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx-hoverxref/issues/163. For sphinx-hoverxref 1.0.0, this is needed.

And you will start seeing tooltips on your internal references.
Apart from ``:ref:`` roles, you can also enable tooltips on:

- :ref:`Code objects from any Sphinx domain <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip on Sphinx Domains>`,
- :ref:`Glossary terms <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip on glossary terms>`,
- :ref:`BibTeX citations <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip on sphinxcontrib-bibtex cites>`,
- :ref:`Pages containing extra JavaScript like sphinx-tabs and
  MathJax <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip with content that needs extra rendering steps>`,
- :ref:`Intersphinx references <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip on intersphinx content>`,
- :ref:`And custom objects! <hoverxref:Usage:Tooltip on custom object>`

.. note::

   sphinx-hoverxref includes the JavaScript embed client in the HTML assets,
   but it is not yet available as a standalone library that can be reused
   with standard frontend packaging tools.
   If you would like to see this happening,

>    `let us know <https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx-hoverxref/issues/>`_.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to see it :D

Calling the Embed API directly
------------------------------

As explained in :ref:`our embedding
guide <guides/embedding-content:calling the embed api directly>`,
you can call the API directly from any HTTP client:

.. code-block:: console

   $ curl -s "https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/\
   > ?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html\
   > %23read-the-docs-features" | python -m json.tool
   {
     "url": "https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#read-the-docs-features",
     "fragment": "read-the-docs-features",
     "content": "<div class=\"section\" id=\"read-the-docs-features\">\n<h1>Read the Docs ...",
     "external": false
   }

Or visually explore the query in the `web interface`__ instead.

.. __: https://readthedocs.org/api/v3/embed/?url=https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html%23read-the-docs-features

> The :ref:`reference documentation <api/v3:embed>`

Reviewer 2: Are we not using a `readthedocs` prefix here?

Author: Good catch, changing.

Author: ...although it worked without it thanks to Sphinx implicit rules :) (but better to add it)

.. _sphinx-hoverxref: https://sphinx-hoverxref.readthedocs.io/

Some big projects already using it include `Tweepy <https://docs.tweepy.org/>`_,
a Python client for Twitter, and `Scrapy <https://docs.scrapy.org/>`_,
a framework for crawling websites.

Embed API v3 and sphinx-hoverxref 1.0
-------------------------------------

After some months of work, **we are excited to publish v3 of our Embed API,
and with it, version 1.0 of sphinx-hoverxref**.

Among other things,
the new versions allow you to
:ref:`embed content from pages hosted outside Read the Docs <guides/embedding-content:embedding content from your documentation>`.
For security reasons, we have an allowlist of such external domains
that currently includes Python, NumPy, SciPy, SymPy,

> and we would like to invite the community to suggest more domains to add.

Reviewer 2: This should link somewhere?

Author: Yep, let's link to the issue tracker.
